OTEL HTTP receiver checks enhancement (#2726)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/faq.md

---
id: faq
title: FAQ

> description: Frequently asked questions about the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry Collector from our customers and field teams.
> ---
> 

Author: ```suggestion
description: Frequently asked questions about Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry Collector from our customers and field teams.
---
```

If you are using the **Upstream OpenTelemetry collector** (instead of the **Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry collector**) and have a custom `config.yaml` file to collect data, then you might see this error. Sumo Logic expects specific tags on the data, which the Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector creates by default.

## Ping checks

#### Does Sumo OpenTelemetry support ping checks?

Yes, our OpenTelemetry collector supports ping checks so that you can monitor up/down status for public https URLs.

How it works - the OpenTelemetry receiver produces metrics that can be ingested and then monitored to track non-200 responses, latency, and other errors.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!--
1. To come...
1. ...
```

If you are using the **Upstream OpenTelemetry collector** (instead of the **Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry collector**) and have a custom `config.yaml` file to collect data, then you might see this error. Sumo Logic expects specific tags on the data, which the Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector creates by default.

## HTTP checks

#### Does Sumo OpenTelemetry support HTTP checks?

Yes, our OpenTelemetry collector supports HTTP checks, allowing you to ping public HTTPs URLs and monitor up/down status.

How it works - the OpenTelemetry receiver produces metrics that can be ingested and then monitored to track non-200 responses, latency, and other errors.
<!--
1. To come...
1. ...

> -->

Author: @ajaiswals to provide (https://sumologic.atlassian.net/browse/SUMO-221966)

> You can get alerted in 3 minutes or less when a OpenTelemetry collector disappears and is not marked ephemeral (i.e., server or VM crashes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get alerted in 3 minutes or less when a OpenTelemetry collector disappears and is not marked ephemeral (that is, server or VM crashes).
```

If you are using the **Upstream OpenTelemetry collector** (instead of the **Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry collector**) and have a custom `config.yaml` file to collect data, then you might see this error. Sumo Logic expects specific tags on the data, which the Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector creates by default.

## HTTP checks

#### Does Sumo OpenTelemetry support HTTP checks?

Yes, our OpenTelemetry Collector supports HTTP checks, allowing you to ping public HTTPs URLs and monitor up/down status.

> Here's how it works: the OpenTelemetry [HTTP Check receiver][httpcheck_receiver_docs] produces metrics that can be ingested and then monitored to track non-200 responses, latency, and other errors.

Author: ```suggestion
Here's how it works: the OpenTelemetry [HTTP Check receiver][httpcheck_receiver_docs] produces metrics that can be ingested and then monitored to track non-200 responses, latency, and other errors. Below is a config sample.
```
